[Music]
[Applause]
we talk a lot we think a lot we act a
lot and when we can about what our
government does in this country the
things that we know about that our
government does in this country what
about the things we don't know about the
things that are done clandestinely in
our name
it began big time during World War two
with the Office of Strategic Services
that morphed into the CIA in the late
1940s and ever since then the CIA has
been a 2-fold agency both collecting
intelligence and making policy on the
basis of that intelligence in
conjunction with presidential
administrations and acting to carry out
that policy clandestinely in many cases
from Chile to Cuba from Sudan to
Afghanistan from Zaire to Indonesia the
footprints and paw prints and finger
prints of the CIA are all over the
United States foreign policy what does
this mean for our system of supposedly
democratic governance and what's the CIA
up to right now that's what we're
talking about today here on Pacifica
radios living room good afternoon this
is living room I'm Larry Ben ski I'll be
joined by two experts in the CIA's
machination 'he's over the centuries
down to today and we'll be taking your
phone calls as well here on living room
first we go to the Pacifica Washington
bureau for a look at today's news
headlines with Bernie Avery Brown Hi
Larry here's some of what's happening in
the news at this hour now on airwaves
around the nation the public can hear
the voice of Monica Lewinsky the House
Judiciary Committee has released the
tapes of the phone conversations
secretly recorded by Linda Tripp of her
conversations with the former White
House intern the u.s. brokered land for
peace deal appears to be going forward
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says Palestinian President
Yasser Arafat has taken a positive step
when Arafat stated Palestinians will
resolve through peaceful means final
status negotiations
and people around the world are staring
up at the night sky to see what's being
called the best meteor shower in three
decades the best viewing is said to be
in Thailand where spectators have
brought sleeping bags to the highest
mountain to see the shooting stars later
today on the Pacifica Network News
Pacific and News will feature a report
from Baghdad on the situation in Iraq PN
ins dawn rush is looking at the tobacco
settlement that health groups want to
snuff out and a special report on the
historic gathering of former death row
prisoners who've been exonerated and
freed since the reinstatement of the
death penalty in 1976 Larry thanks
Furnham it seems that nothing happens
abroad these days without those three
letters CIA somehow being attached to it
most recently in the Wye River Accords
supposedly being put into effect in
Israel / Palestine the CIA asked for a
more active role as peacekeeper agency
in that region of course with last
weekend's possible bombing of Iraq the
CIA's gathering of intelligence once
again came into the headlines and the
possibility that the CIA had asked for
and not been given a role in
assassinating or otherwise getting rid
of Saddam Hussein those three letters
CIA have come to be synonymous around
the world with some of the evil that the
United States government is purported to
have done here at home their role
remains a mystery as it is
internationally because they are of
course a clandestine service and always
find some way to hide what it is they've
done or purportedly done from prying
eyes today will try to pry open a little
bit of that secrecy with two experts
who've been following the CIA and
clandestine government in the United
States for years they join us from
Pacifica station WPF W in Washington in
our Studios there are first of all Peter
Kornblum who is a senior research
analyst for the national security
archives that is a private research
library started back around iran-contra
time Peter corn blue is editor most
recently of a book about the Bay of Pigs
declassified documents and he has just
in the last few days returned from
London where he was investigating what
is going on with the arrest of former
Chilean dictator General Augusto
Pinochet who according to
Press reports just a few minutes ago now
has a court date December 2nd to decide
whether or not that he will be
extradited to Spain and perhaps
elsewhere
Peter corn blue has written extensively
about the situation in Chile for many
years most recently in the magazine
edited by our other guest today is
magazine an investigative magazine from
the Media Consortium our other guest is
Robert Perry he is as I said editor of
that publication but Robert Perry has
itself a long and distinguished history
and investigating clandestine masa
nations of the US government dating back
to the mid 1980s when he and then
partner Brian Barger were the first to
break what became the iran-contra
scandal and the role of Oliver North
both Peter corn blue and Robert Perry
have been guests on Pacifica programs
and especially living room in the past
pleasure to welcome both of you back
with us again Thank You Larry great to
be here Larry Peter let's start with you
and where you've just been and what
you've been doing I know you could take
up this hour and many other hours
reciting the history which as I say you
wrote about in the most recent issue of
if' magazine of the Chile coup and the
CIA and the United States clandestine
operation there back in the early 1970s
but you've just been to London and
before you left I spoke to you trying to
arrange for you to be on this program
and you said that you thought that the
arrest of General Pinochet was one of
the most important breakthroughs of the
curtain of international secrecy about
the kinds of people Pinochet is and the
CIA a period that's occurred in recent
years why did you think that and and
what's the latest going on with this
case I think all the international
attention around the arrest of gusto
Pinochet has reopened the issue of the
the u.s. role in Chile and between 1970
1973 this was one of the most famous
efforts by the CIA directed by Richard
Nixon and Henry Kissinger to overthrow a
democratically elected government and
then to support really a cutthroat
murderous military regime we don't know
a lot about the history of the CIA's
support for General Pinochet and his
secret police force Dina but because
Spanish courts are trying to extradite
General Pinochet they have asked the
United States to open the secret
archives here on the evidence of you
notice atrocities and there are
literally thousands of documents in the
CIA files the Defense Intelligence
Agency's files and the National Security
Council's files that really do chart not
only what Pinochet did to his own people
but as acts of international terrorism
and of course the United States
knowledge and in role in some of those
activities so here's a really an
extraordinary opportunity that we now
have now with international pressure on
the Clinton administration to open these
files and not only let Chileans have the
evidence that will help convict Pinochet
of these crimes but also allow Americans
to know more fully what what our
government was doing in those days well
Peter cornzu I don't know if you'd
already left but I'm sure you've seen it
the since you got back there was an
article in New York Times November 6 by
a Tim Weiner who usually covers their
intelligence speed as it were sending up
a kind of a trial balloon from the
United States Justice Department in the
Clinton administration saying they're
discussing whether to seek the
extradition of General Pinochet to the
United States in conjunction of course
with the killing of Orlando Letelier and
Ronnie Moffett in Washington DC to bomb
attack as well as Charles Horman and
Frank to ruiji whom we've talked about
over the years in Chile to Americans who
were killed there and here's a little
bit of understatement to get your
comment on it the New York Times
reporter wrote the move by the Justice
Department could open up a can of worms
in secret United States government files
a former senior American intelligence
officer who served in Chile in the 1970s
said President Nixon his National
Security Advisor Henry Kissinger and the
CIA were deeply involved in attempts to
overthrow the elected marxist government
of chile Salvador Allende the CIA was
keenly aware of the murder and torture
committed by the Pinochet regime the
retired American intelligence officer
said now what's going on here do you
think Peter corn blue is the Clinton
administration really interested in any
serious way and getting General Pinochet
extradited to the United States and
opening up that can of worms
the can of worms is specifically the
cia's relationship to the Chilean secret
police which was created in 1974 and
which reported directly and exclusively
to General Pinochet and took orders
exclusively from General Pinochet the
Clinton administration I think faces the
pathology of secrecy and the CIA which
obviously always not only in this case
but in Honduras and the Nicaraguan
contour and in in Cuba attempts to to
cover up these unseemly and somewhat
sordid facts at times and I think that
that is going to factor here and the
reluctance to to open the files I think
there are other bureaucratic factors as
well and there's a diplomatic concern
about events in Chile that are going on
right now as that country tries to
grapple with it with a past that has now
been kind of raised at the surface of
society by the arrests of General
Pinochet in London but those are the
barriers that we have to overcome and
that Bob Perry has done so much over the
years to overcome to really uncork these
secrets and and get them out well Bob
Perry talked for a minute about the kind
of work that you do because here we run
up against the nut of the problem or at
least one of them the more the reporters
and investigators like you and Peter
corn blue get close to things like what
happened in Chile in the early 1970s or
what was going on in Central America in
the mid-1980s as far as illegal weapons
and drug operations were going the more
you run into the skeletons and sometimes
the stone walls of so-called plausible
denial and the corporate press will
always come out and say well you didn't
prove it you don't have the documents to
prove it on the other hand you can file
Freedom of Information Act requests from
now until the time that our
grandchildren are old and be sure you
still won't get the documents you needed
so how do you keep at it and and try to
break through that both official
governmental conspiracy of silence I
think we can call it and the corporate
press is complicity with it well I think
there are some ways you get through it
and Peter and others have done a good
job in terms of keeping the pressure on
trying to get documents sometimes
documents come out when I was working
with the AP and then with Newsweek and
then with PB
yes we had a certain amount of success
in getting out documents when we only
went for them there were also people in
the government who are honest who will
tell you what's going on often sometimes
for their own interests but you can
often find out whether it is true or not
so reporters play a very important role
and so do various investigators or an
academics who press these the edges of
these envelopes but we've seen other
cases where for instance with the Contra
drug operations that we're where the CIA
in in October came out with a fairly
honest and reasonably complete report
about its own knowledge of these crimes
it was perhaps the most direct and
serious admission I've ever read by any
US government agency about major crimes
that it was implicated in the problem
was that the mainstream news media chose
to essentially ignore the findings there
you go into it and to ignore the content
right you know and one reason that I've
been publishing iif magazine and doing
the consortium on the Internet has been
to find a way to an outlet to put out
this kind of information on a consistent
basis
and much of what we've been doing and
Peters story this in this issue fits
into that we've been looking at how this
whole process evolved we're in a sense
the Chilean coup was important in
another way because in 1973 with the
overthrow of the Allende government in
Chile we saw the beginnings of a chain
of events that went through Argentina in
76 Bolivia in 1980 and then almost
seamlessly almost directly through those
events we saw the development of the
Contra movement in Central America the
Argentine's who essentially were the
Argentine intelligence services who were
essentially helped out by Pinochet and
inspired by him when they seized control
of Argentina in 76 and begin there they
are so-called disappearances of many of
their victims on a larger scale than
Pinochet even they then move on to help
overthrow the Bolivian government we see
the influx then of much of the drug
money into this process those those
characters then move on to Honduras
where they begin training and working
with the with the Contras so
contre formation which the CIA also is
of course involved in is tied into this
whole process of what we were seeing
coming out of the early 70s through the
mid 70s into the 80s by the time we get
to the early to mid 80s the US
government is deeply implicated in all
of this and the reason as the CIA report
now describes is that the the CIA
officers in the field were instructed to
make the Contras be functional as an
army they they set aside concerns about
drug trafficking and they acknowledge
that in this report and they were doing
what they felt the folks back at Langley
particularly William Casey the director
and some others want it so you see you
see this kind of evolution of u.s.
foreign policy into some of the dirtiest
aspects the most scandalous aspects of
what the US government has perhaps ever
been involved in even to the point of
massive shipments of drugs into the
United States in and around the contra
operations which has now been admitted
by the CIA well let me ask both of you
then what about the latest trial balloon
that went up or one of the latest around
the time of the so-called Wye River
record about the Middle East and Israel
and Palestine where it was prominently
featured in descriptions of the reports
of that conference that the CIA would
have a major role as a so-called
peacekeeper in that region what is
either of both of you make of that well
I have to say Larry that the CIA much
like the Pentagon has been fishing
around for a new role a new mission in
the aftermath of the Cold War and I
think most of your listeners would
assume that the budget for the
intelligence community would go down
with the collapse of the Soviet Union
our greatest enemy and that that money
might actually be funneled into a some
more productive avenues for American
society but in fact that the
intelligence budgets just gone up by
five billion dollars from approximately
twenty five twenty four billion dollars
to twenty nine billion dollars and one
of the ways the agency tries to justify
that is to move itself into other
avenues including this role in the
Middle East to some degree though Larry
this was not entirely a break with the
past the the CIA has had a long role as
a secret diplomatic entity it's you know
there you you mentioned the two roles of
the agency and in fact there were three
and the third part of what the agency
did especially in the Middle East was to
serve as sort of the backdoor diplomatic
channel we saw the case of in the early
days when the Carter Administration was
dealing secretly with the PLO and trying
to develop avenues into the Middle East
to help settle some of those conflicts
it was the CIA particularly Robert Ames
who was who died later in a bombing in
Beirut who played a key role in
advancing some of those contacts so you
did have that role for the agency which
some people might consider one of its
more constructive aspects but obviously
now the agency as Peter says is looking
for new new assignments and trying to
put its hand up whenever it can when
especially when there's money around to
support opera well what is there in
their past operations that indicates
leaving aside even the question of how
we're supposed to run government in this
country you know open covenants openly
arrived at a democratic processes and
hearings and votes and documents and all
those things that we don't get when the
CIA implements or it helps to make
policy leaving aside that question what
is there in the agency's past that
indicates that we can trust them in any
kind of peacekeeper role to do anything
but empire build their own agency well
probably not much I think they I think
all bureaucracies will try to survive
and build on themselves they are like
living entities and to some degree they
have a lot of people involved there are
mortgages and there are college tuitions
and private schools and all the rest of
it
so so any agency whether it be the CIA
or any other will try to protect its
turf and try to expand that turf and I
think we're gonna see that with the CIA
the problem with the agency has always
been the component of secrecy that
factors into it and while some of that
may be necessary what we've seen over
the past 50 years now is that often
mistakes are covered up actions that are
highly anti-democratic are covered up
that whenever you have a situation like
this you're going to see them spread out
other areas for instance we saw in the
80s the effort to do domestic public
diplomacy that was to to run through the
NSC in the State Department but still
confess still reporting back to the CIA
operations designed to control the
washington press corps and to create
into what they call perception
management so these kinds of extra legal
or illegal operations are almost should
almost be expected when you have an
operation that is so secret well let me
bring up something then and get your
brief comment on it we're going to open
the phones in about two minutes and get
our listeners participation in this
program here on living room a Robert
Perry the final and the cover story in
your in your most recent issue of if'
magazine and we will give people details
about how they can get in touch with you
and get copies of that it's called the
impeachment conspiracy and as you both
know and our listeners know I am
notoriously an anti conspiracist I poo
poo these things I think we have enough
of real things to worry about without
fantasizing about secret governments and
secret conspiracies but I need to ask
this question here because it's on my
mind and I think it's on some listeners
minds how possible is it that what we
are seeing right now in this entire
impeachment matter is not only what you
write about robert Parry an overt
attempt on the part of various
right-wing forces to get president
clinton and the people they don't want
out of power how much of it may have a
clandestine element in it - which
involves who knows what agencies
including possibly the CIA
well we've seen cases in the past where
that does apparently happen there there
are there been allegations on the on the
1980 election of Ronald Reagan which
suggest and I think there's now more and
more evidence supporting it that that
Kate that William Casey who was in
campaign director for Reagan was getting
information from the CIA from people at
the National Security Council which he
could use for political purposes there
was that component well I think we've
seen though more generally as we went
through the 80s and and sort of the
spreading out of these techniques has
been that now these are generic you can
use the same kinds of techniques that
the CIA use it used in Guatemala or in
in Iran or in Chile or anyplace else you
can use them domestically use them in
the United States they're not they're
not patented
they're not copyrighted so what you can
see are more and more of the political
life of this country has taken on in
many ways the look of how the CIA runs
these propaganda and disinformation
operations and that's a very frightening
thought I'm gonna have to interrupt you
there Peter corn blue I want your
comment on that when we come back after
a brief break we're also going to be
opening our phones here on living room
our telephone number is
[Music]
and we're back here live on living room
we'll take your calls in a moment but
Peter Chrome blow I just wanted to get
your response to that how far-fetched is
it to think that what's going on now is
not only as I think many people have
said and there's certainly evidence to
support it an overt right-wing effort to
consolidate their forces behind this
impeachment but also involves
clandestine activities I'll have to
usually run out and get bob's magazine
what he argues I think the main you know
problem for the CIA is that is is that
of a conspiracy of silence frankly and a
conspiracy to cover up its own history
and you know about I guess seven years
ago the CI decided was going to have an
openness campaign where I was a better
reveal the documents on 11 major covert
operations in part to kind of distance
itself from its history to let the
American public know what it had done
and to basically position itself as an
agency that could be supported in the
kind of role that it's now going to be
playing in the Middle East for example
and we and of course the agency failed
to to live up to its openness campaign
it now wants the Clinton administration
to authorize its concealment of a
hundred million pages of still
classified documents a lot of agents
over at operations yeah that is a lot of
it's not only a lot of pages it's a lot
of history the American public not only
has need-to-know but a right to know I
know you study Honduras extensively and
there was an article a little while ago
in The Washington Post a couple of weeks
ago about how the CIA is refusing to
give human rights investigators in
Honduras the names of Honduran military
officers who are suspected of killing
people especially a rebel leader back in
1983 I mean secrecy is their is their
stock and trade
we're going to go to the phones but
before I do we've gotten a lot of calls
already wanting to know how to get your
publication Robert Peary and wanting to
know more about you his publication is
called if' magazine i as in Isadora F
isn't Feinstein which was I have stung
same and also in fact an earlier
magazine published by George sell this
back in the 40s and 50s if' magazine you
can get by calling 1-800 738 1802 that's
one eight hundred seven three eight 1802
and he
like excuse me look yeah I think that
that number is a bit wrong it's it's
it's one eight hundred seven three eight
one eight one two oh well then it's
wrong in your magazine you better
correct it right on page two
if you wonder why you're not getting
these subscriptions okay let me give it
out correctly one eight hundred seven
three eight one eight one two one eight
one two and like a lot of idealists he
sacrifices his own pocket in order to
share information because almost every
article in this magazine is online you
can get it by going online at consortium
news.com that's one word consortium
news.com Steve and Pacific Palisades
California is our first caller thanks
for joining us on living room Steve yes
thank you since the intelligence
communications oversight committees in
Congress were established there really
has not been a proper oversight method
and I just want to state that unless the
national security act itself is repealed
and rewritten there will be continued
abuse of human rights
you know worldwide by the CIA and
intelligence community we have to get to
the legal structures which protect these
institutions to protect the right
suppose it right of executive to bypass
congressional you know scrutiny and
bypass the separation of powers
well a while back there was a move to
Senator Moynihan and others are making
noise let's abolish the CIA yeah but
that doesn't work unless you have a
reincarnation of National Security Act
itself and the way for the executive
branch to do things without any
oversight or scrutiny of course not
because all they're going to do is shift
those activities in the CIA so the
Defense Department right so your effort
to obtain documents has moved especially
after the fact it unless there's a
political movement to repeal the
National Security Act we're wasting our
time
okay Steve thanks man I thought your
thoughts on that Peter Kornblum we're
wasting our time asking for these
documents until we can change the law
well I think history is very important
to help change the situation with the
CIA let me give you an example a brand
new book that we've just published
called Bay of Pigs Declassified is
really the lengthy CI Inspector
General's report on what
went wrong at the bay of pigs this
report was done in 1961 and it was so
skating that the the highest officials
at the CI decided to burn all the copies
that they could get their hands on and
lock the two or three remaining copies
away for more than 37 years and the
reason as the internal document says
show is because if this report got into
the hands of other executive branch
officials into the hands of Congress and
into the unfriendly hands of the
American public there would be a major
outcry to abolish CIA covert operations
to take that responsibility away from
the CIA probably to give it to the
Pentagon but that report was was kept
under wraps and and the whole history of
covert operations as we know them went
forward from 1961 onward all the
scandals that we know the assassination
scandals the Contra war scandals the
iran-contra scandal the a wreck aid
scandal etc etc so if you can get those
documents out more expeditiously then
you can have a fuller debate more
informed debate over where the CIA
should go I have to agree with your call
or overall and we have to redefine the
National Security Act and it is likely
that unless the covert operations is
explicitly taken away from the CIA that
we are going to continue to have these
abuses as long as the agency exists I I
should also say that the results of
having this kind of secret government
are outlined in a book which our Co
guest today wrote called fooling America
is that still in print Bob Perry no it's
pretty well sold out but like we have
tried to should be in some libraries but
I think on the point that Peter makes it
it's in some ways it's worse than that
because what we've seen more recently is
that with the Contra drug report which
is perhaps as scathing if not more
scathing than the report on the Bay of
Pigs in a more profound way and that
there the CI knew about it 50 or so
contra entities and Contras were
involved in drug trafficking they they
had they had a thousand or so cables
that there was that provided evidence
that had been hidden through the 80s but
here it was being made public and the
washington press corps chose almost
across the board to ignore it that
washington post waited 25 days before
wrote any story about this topic the New
York Times wrote when a couple days
after came
but it was buried inside below the fold
you had in the I think the LA Times I'm
not sure they've done something yet so
you've had this problem where even when
the information comes out you still need
a media that is that is that is willing
to do it has the courage to do it and
has that has the knowledge to do it and
that we don't have right now well we've
got it right here on Pacifica and a lot
of us are trying to keep a life as long
as we can believe me and I'm really
grateful that we've been able over the
years to have both of you and others on
to talk about this so we often get
people saying to us we're so glad
Pacifica exists and this is one of the
reasons why it does so let's Pat our own
selves on the back for once here go to
cliff in Washington DC thanks for
joining us on living room cliff yeah now
that I hear that there's more money yet
going to the intelligence community
since the end of the Cold War and I now
have an idea of what happened to at
least some part of our so-called peace
dividend well that's true I see I recall
back in the 70s just catching the tail
end of an interview on radio of a woman
who apparently had special knowledge of
the CIA and she talked about a technique
that the CIA used uses at least was
using Zinn and she gave it a name but I
don't recall what the name was but what
what they do is when they want that is
CIA wants Americans to believe something
to be true to be going on in a foreign
country they plant this information in
in the newspaper of that newspapers or
the media oh that most of the print
media of that country that they want the
u.s. to believe to be true
Peter corn booth is an example of that
in Chile in the 1970s Larry I'm sorry
I'm trying to say that what happens it's
then is that the US media picks that up
right from the foreign media and then
reports it as in fact being true that's
exactly what they do
Peter quorum
did that exactly in Chile in the 1970s
for that this improves a technique
called blowback and yeah it is exactly
how you describe it the CIA had many
journalists particularly foreign
journalists on its payroll the internal
CIA reports which my organization the
National Security Archive have posted on
our website about Chile and the CIA have
is that the CIA itself claiming that it
planted some 750 stories around the
world black propaganda stories about
Salvador Allende is government and that
these stories obviously came back to
influence the American press coverage of
of ien day undermining his his
government bolstering US efforts to
overthrow him and and making General
Pinochet when he came to power look look
good well what evidence do we have if
any that that's not still going on what
evidence that we have when we read an
article in the newspaper about Kosovo or
Iraq or Indonesia or someplace else
where the American public can be assumed
not to have a great deal of first-hand
knowledge most of us what evidence do we
have the CIA still is not buying and
paying for foreign journalists and
domestic journalists for that matter to
do their work robert Parry well I think
you can assume it is happening the it's
not it's often hard to find out that it
happened but in the 1980s a piece that
actually Peter corn blew and I
co-authored for foreign policy magazine
described how this whole process changed
in the 80s this in what you talked about
with the 70s was true there was this
blowback problem but it got more
sophisticated in the 80s where the
Reagan administration employed what they
call perception management domestically
and there they built that they created
false stories whether it be yellow rain
and chemical warfare in the in Asia or
whether it be the Contra of some of the
some of the information but the
Sandinistas and this information was
fabricated it was known to be black
propaganda and it was disseminated
internally in the United States and in
the and the US government very
effectively worked with reporters here
and intimidated some and collaborated
with others so we saw that that evolved
during the 80s and then we get to the
90s most of the press corps has already
learned those lessons of how to how to
protect your career how not to offend
this national security establishment so
or saying now is just a lot less
questioning about these kinds of issues
so and this is kind of a climate it
would be very easy to put out a story
there might be false about Iraq or any
other part of the world and have it not
be questioned by the by the washington
press corps a deep sigh emerges from
within my journalistic rich in santa
monica california thanks for joining us
on living room yes Larry do you remember
back when John Deutsch showed up out in
the South Central Los Angeles I do
indeed high school I have a tape of that
I was the fella the last fella that got
to ask him a question and I had a series
of questions that I wanted to ask him I
was interrupted from doing that from
some other protester there but mr.
Deutsch had resigned even before he came
out to Los Angeles nobody talks about
that but you know the thing that I find
that we're missing in this whole
discussion is we're worried about the
CIA and their white budget because it's
not a black propaganda or a black
anything it's a white such and so and
when we're looking at what they're doing
the DIA is the one we should be looking
at because they can operate within the
can do operate within the country and so
my thing is that we must wake up to the
fact that we are in a kanpai recei not a
conspiracy this is a piracy con that is
going on and the media is playing the
biggest role in getting the people to
believe certain things such as wellthat
that the CIA is going to investigate
itself and we're going to get a report
from the CIA we're saying that oh yes we
are
we help the Contras to bring cocaine
into Los Angeles but in fact robert
Parry is saying that the CIA did
investigate itself and did come up with
many conclusions damning to the CIA
about the drug agency they're just at
the media didn't pick it up no no the
media is not going to pick it up because
if it does then the the pharmaceutical
money and all the the big money that
they're getting from these from the
petroleum and the petrochemical industry
to support to keep their lie in check
you see this is what I'm saying then
let's go back to your first point rich
because I think it's a very important
one the budget of the Intelligence
Agency's right altogether is supposed
it's supposed to be about twenty seven
twenty eight billion dollars now of
which only three billion dollars is
supposedly spent by the CIA the rest
spent by as you say Larry right the
Defense Intelligence Agency we have no
idea how much do you have eighty five
percent if they have published in and I
think covert action or one of those
organizations have a have where they the
Pentagon or pentagram has published a
showing how much money they spend on
what he called disinformation campaigns
and the would be all the different
propaganda ways of getting people to
believe different things of the
perceptions management etc right comes
to almost eighty five percent of their
budget well let's get a comment from our
two guests rich thank you on that making
that point the twenty seven billion or
twenty eight billion however much it is
figure Robert Perry and Peter corn blew
a lot of that goes to the National
Reconnaissance Agency to the National
Security Agency's Defense Information
Agency and a whole bunch of other
agencies about which we don't know a
heck of a lot possibly even less than we
know about the CIA what's your take
about what's happening with all that
money and is some of it being spent
domestically to influence policy and
propaganda in this country well I think
the there are some good things that the
agency does and other other parts of the
US intelligence the what we've seen what
actually what is that what a surprising
me and some way encouraged me and seeing
some of these documents that we're now
looking at is the fact that there were
people in the in the analytical division
of CIA who were doing a fairly honest
job I got to know one of the one of the
analysts pretty well who was handling
non-proliferation issues back in the 80s
and and he had been driven out of the
CIA cuz he kept insisting that Pakistan
was involved in in moving ahead on
nuclear weapons and that went against
what what the Reagan administration
wanted ELC also argued that the Soviet
Union had been less irresponsible on
proliferation than the Reagan people
wanted to say so he was effectively he
was literally sent to us like
ayuh tristan told he was unstable so so
there were people though who were heroes
inside the CIA and other agencies trying
to do an honest job which was to tell
the American people and the policymakers
more importantly more directly for them
the policymakers what was actually going
on but we saw an overriding of that we
saw many people purge during that period
who were doing decent work you know and
so I think that it's it's it can't be
there can't be a one brush to paint
everything in the US intelligence
communities there you're talking about
one of the aspects information-gathering
people who tried to gather honest
information and in many cases were
purged and there's a Reuters story I
don't know if you've seen it today out
of Hawaii indicating that an analyst has
been purged just today for having done
what you're talking about he didn't
Accord to the CIA's line about China the
China Sea I apparently wanted to have a
report saying China is about to implode
because of ethnic tensions he studied it
a man named Gary fuller and said no
that's not going to happen so he lost
his CIA contract you're talking about
the information gathering element here
but I want to talk about more and the
CIA always falls back on this and I've
been done debates myself with CIA people
the various campuses and on the radio
they always want to say well our job
gathering information we do this in that
it's a difficult tough world out there
and blah blah blah and sometimes we have
successes and here they are
I want to talk about their operational
aspect I want to talk about them going
around the world destabilizing
governments planting disinformation
blowback black propaganda whatever you
want to call it all of that kind of
stuff that's gone on forever since 1948
or even since the Second World War and
right now how do we get at that can I
just pick up on the point that your
caller was making a Larry which is that
there are other agencies in the
intelligence community that conduct
covert operations and there are many
agencies in the Defense Department
itself not the DIA I don't believe
actually but other elements of the
Special Forces and the Green Berets and
the black berets etc who do have major
covert operations components they have
remained for the most part largely
neglected because a lot of our focus
over the years has been on CIA covert
operations but this is the cost of
secrecy that we don't know about the
elements of the national security
agencies that that do conduct operations
around the world that are in our name
but are without our knowledge we need to
have less secrecy when it comes to
national security operations then we
have now so we can so we can engage in
how a discussion about how that money is
being spent when we come back with Peter
corn blue of the National Security
Archive and Robert Perry of the
consortium and if' magazine we're going
to ask both of them again to give out
their phone numbers and websites Peter
yours especially because you mentioned
it in passing for the National Security
Archive and all the documents you've got
posted there for people to a point and
click around this is specific array dioz
living room we'd like to get some calls
from women here in the audience these
are issues that certainly affect all of
us no matter what our ethnicity or
gender our telephone number one eight
hundred nine foot I'll be back at sixty
second so our phones are full we'll be
back
[Music]
[Applause]
and we're back here on living room we're
going to ask some guys to step aside so
we can get some women's voices here
discussing these issues one eight
hundred nine five eight nine zero zero
eight is our telephone number
Peter corn blue what's the website for
National Security Archive its wwas gwu
dot edu / NS AR CH I ve okay I'm gonna
say that again slowly
ww SaaS dot GW u dot edu slash NS a are
CH IV as a National Security Archive
without the e on the end no no with the
e on e other you didn't mention the e
alright that put the yeah NS AR SCH IV e
on the end and once again to get ahold
of Robert Perry's organization the
consortium and I F magazine it's WW
consortium news.com or their telephone
number to subscribe or get a sample copy
one eight hundred seven three eight one
eight one two you're gonna send the next
issue to me for proofreading right Bob
will Joe in San Francisco thanks for
your patience thanks for joining us on
living room sure there's a comment on
the arm he has an implication on the
left you know both here internationally
I think as you know the crusade SDS or
infiltrated Clinton himself in fact is
Roger virus talks about in this book
partisan partners and policy rooms have
been this area as it was at Oxford I
guess the question I have is you know
what effect could this infestation have
had what effect did it have on the left
and how was going to explain the current
I supposed to call incoherence on the
left in this country I think we do that
very well by ourselves without being
infiltrated anyone but your point is
well-taken the infiltration of the left
which is documented many many times over
now during the 60s and 70s and beyond by
COINTELPRO and other
programs where is there any evidence
that the CIA or a government agency like
that other than the FBI which of course
has been documented and having done it
at the CIA was directly contravening its
charter and acting domestically Peter
Korn blue or Robert Perry well certainly
it was I think in the 1980s as well I
mean much of the COINTELPRO story and
the attacks on the on the black civil
rights leadership and so forth that that
goes back further but in 1980 with a
decision to target the Washington press
corps and to target congressional staff
people with the so-called public
diplomacy or perception management
operations those were direct
interventions by the CIA into domestic
policy in the United States in a very
direct way we know based on documentary
evidence that came out during
iran-contra that their reports were
being made back to William Casey at the
CIA about the progress that these
projects were having and indeed that it
was being run by a former top official
of CIA disinformation and propaganda
named Walter Raymond jr. who had been
moved over to the National Security
Council for this purpose so we saw an
effort to really directly go after the
information base of this country by
putting in false information exaggerated
information propaganda about the issues
that the see I wanted dealt with in a
certain way that was with a more
aggressive approach in Central America
and and and with arms buildups in in
Europe so that's what we know for a fact
is that continuing it's always hard to
get to the current moment on these kinds
of stories because you do have to rely
on certain ruptures of information to
figure them out well let me try to bring
you up to the current moment a little
bit here what do you make of this and
this is from a website of the
progressive review by our friend Sam
Smith whom I think you both know in
Washington DC it's headlined National
Public Radio chooses propaganda czar as
chief executive officer and he writes in
a move roughly akin to the ACLU hiring a
CIA director for its president National
Public Radio has named the Czar of
American broadcast agitprop as its CEO
Kevin close as the man in question Klos
II he now coordinates all major American
broadcast propaganda and
The Voice of America and rather you
Marty radio free europe/radio Liberty
Radio Free Asia
Kevin close was president of Radio Free
europe/radio Liberty from 1992 to 1997
prior to that he worked for many years
for The Washington Post is there any
concern that somebody with that kind of
background with the united states
propaganda missions abroad would become
a head of something as large as national
called the radio I think there is some
concern oh not because of kind of
clandestine or propaganda issues but
more because of a career in the US
government that it really doesn't lend
itself to kind of a clear vision of what
public radio might be about I think that
the agency is that that mr. Clow's
headed in the 1990s were less tied to
two propagandistic activities per se
than in those agent in the 1990s then
those agencies were in the 60s and 70s
and 80s at the greater times of the Cold
War that includes radio Marti Peter corn
blue well radio Marty I think is well
liked there has been some effort to
change radio Marti but yes I think
that's a good example of why we should
be concerned about this I'd have to go
back and look at whether he made a
personal effort to wrest control of
radio Marti away from the anti-castro
Cuban exile community that controls it
and and what role he actually played in
that before I could necessarily say that
he was a horrible candidate for that
reason what's your take on this Robert
Peary cause for concern well sure I
think the I've seen personally at the
public broadcasting where I did some
work that the kinds of pressures that
have been placed on all public
broadcasting have been intense the the
efforts to control the CPB the
corporation of public broadcasting also
came out of the 80s in a very direct way
where political operatives with very
strong ideological positions were placed
in those jobs with the idea of getting
control of PBS and influencing the
direction of the programming and that's
how it works
and I saw it personally affect judgments
being made inside PBS so yes when you
have that kind of crossover you have a
you have a possible problem and an NPR
particularly was targeted during the
by the public diplomacy apparatus there
there there's documentary evidence about
efforts to to pressure NPR to go soft on
its coverage of Central America where it
was doing some very good courageous
honest reporting about what was
happening there and one of the foreign
editor who was involved in in in those
stories was eventually eventually
pressured out of his job so you have a
history of this effort just sort of
politicize public broadcasting and make
it more ideological and in tune with
what these kinds of intelligence
agencies might like now we'll have to
wait and see those who listen to
National Public Radio perhaps will be
able to detect the difference perhaps
not many people think it's gone too far
in the direction that might be going in
anyway with that kind of propagandistic
orientation thomas in santa monica
california thanks for joining us on
living room hi thank you just wanted to
see if you could answer any give me any
information on the following
did you ever hear anything in the early
80s late seventies where we in Casey
well
CIA director was although he was
supposed to keep most of his private
holdings in blind trust did not hold out
his cap city's stock which was a pretty
considerable amount of stock in cap
cities whereupon ABC was was held as the
government held the SCC license for ABC
where the stock went down and in cap
cities went ahead of course and as we
all know bought ABC and just want to see
if you could answer that and see if that
has any relevance to what we're talking
about and I'll get off alright well
thanks for calling Thomas I do remember
something about that robert Parry but I
can't for the life of me remember what I
remember what did you remember
I wrote those stories for the APS there
you go
the the stories that we did for the
Associated Press in the early 80s looked
at how Casey had refused to put his
holdings in a blind trust there were
obviously cases where especially
considering some of his oil holdings and
so forth that his knowledge at CIA could
have influenced the outcome of some of
his stock holdings after we did a number
of pieces he finally agreed to move at
least pretty much all of them into a
blind trust I think there was a
vision that he did not want his cap city
stocks old he was a major investor in
cap City at the time now whether that
influenced the direction of ABC once cap
City moved into the ABC area it's hard
to say it's those are things we never
would quite got to the bottom of but I
think there obviously have to be
concerns when you have those kinds of
crossovers which is one reason that
people use blind trusts to try to
prevent to or to minimize that kind of
problem Doug in Long Beach California
thanks for joining us on living room
Larry thanks thanks for taking my call I
want to thank both your guests for
coming on the show and your program for
bringing such horror stories to light
thank you get much coverage I think if
we really want to understand the
implications of the Central Intelligence
Agency in the United States media I'm 36
years old and not one time has a u.s.
sponsored supported trained or funded
dictator School of the Americas has
produced 10 heads of states by the way
none of them democratically elected has
never been arrested in my lifetime this
is the first now the international
community and the press is Matt Noriega
Noriega wasn't arrested by a an agency
outside of the United States no I see
what you're saying okay no international
community is ever arrest of the u.s.
dictator okay the international media is
all over this here in the United States
there's a news blackout I mean it
doesn't even exist you talking about
Pinochet arrest I'm sorry you talking
about General Pinochet arrest right
exactly yeah well I would call it a news
blackout I mean it is in the national
papers fairly consistently Peter
Kornbluth what do you expect to happen
with General Pinochet should he be
extradited to Spain there'll be
certainly massive international coverage
of that I would expect there there was a
lot of coverage in in Britain there has
been some New York Times coverage and
sporadic Washington Post coverage I
don't know but and a lot of all the
wires were there with me sitting in the
hearing room in London Reuters and AP
and and all of them but I think that the
Pinochet case
if it goes to extradition if there's
actually a trial in Spain will certainly
be a historic event it already is a
historic event it is a turning point in
the evolution of and the power of human
rights law and I think it's going to
change history as the Chileans know it
inside their country and hopefully if
your listeners get on the horn and push
for the declassification of documents
that can help the case in Spain and it
can help the American public know more
about our own government's role in Chile
it'll change the history of the CIA as
we know it here as well but there's also
one interesting point that makes this
even more current in its the role of
George Bush if you remember George Bush
was the CIA director in 1976 at the time
of one of the worst cases of
international terrorism in American
history that was the the bombing that
killed littell yeah who was an associate
of alien days and Ronnie Moffett who was
an associate of letelier's and that
occurred in Washington DC and we now we
know based on the documentary evidence
that exists that the CIA was was alerted
to this problem it's never been clear
what George Bush did with that
information
he has never been willing to talk about
he's never been pressed to talk about it
so I think the the information we would
find could lead in those directions
about what Bush was was actually doing
and knew about these very much these
terrorist operations and that still
remains relevant because his son is is
considered a front-runner for the next
presidency of the United States and and
if that happens one can assume that the
father will be back and back helping to
run foreign policy so I think it's the
kind of question that is not just
historical but has real currency and
possibly even effects on the future
robert Parry and Peter corn blow a
caller called who didn't want to be on
the air but wanted to ask this question
it's relevant to what we're going to be
very relevant to what we're going to be
talking about tomorrow here on living
room tomorrow is that you probably both
know is the 20th anniversary of the
tragedy at Jonestown and Guyana and ever
since that event and indeed before it
there were many people like myself who
covered it at the time as journalists
who suspected that there were elements
of intelligence agency involvement and
that on one basis or another some people
think the whole thing was set up by the
CIA
Jim Jones calling himself a
revolutionary socialist running around
the world with tens of millions of
dollars bringing his multi racial group
excuse me Larry but did you say you were
to subscribe to conspiracy theories I
want to get your take on this I'm just
telling you what some people have said
over the years about this and we're
gonna be dealing with this tomorrow
especially with a reporter who spent
four or five years investigating this
he'll be one of our guest tomorrow but
what does either of you know about that
particular tragedy and the and the
Central Intelligence Agency's possible
involvement I know very little about it
you know about Guyana and the CIA was
involved in Guyana in the early sixties
we overthrew a government there they
were ordered by John Kennedy to
overthrow the government of Cheddi Jagan
they did so the CIA has covered up the
historical record of that particular
covert operation but beyond that I I
just would say that that that's an
avenue that is unlikely to bear fruit in
terms of a role of some secret agency of
the United States government in that in
that whole episode there may have been
intelligence reporting on it after it
took place which would be worth going
after under the Freedom of Information
Act but I would I would hesitate to to
find Landon and credence to to those
conspiracy theories I do have a
suggestion for your readers because even
though this is very difficult to get the
history out in the last few months
some key documents really have gotten on
the public record that are available for
four-year listeners to read and I think
they'll give him a really good sense of
the CIA's history and what the debate
should be about now yes three separate
Inspector General's reports all done
inside the CIA now that does have some
problems on their credibility but still
they're worth reading we have the CIA
inspector report on the inspector
general's report on the Bay of Pigs
invasion which is well worth reading in
which I have just published in a book
called Bay of Pigs Declassified
published by the new press Peter we hear
that music it means our times up so give
us the other two quickly Hana Honduras
and battalion 316 and we have the CIA
inspector general's report on the
Contras and drugs and this brings us
right up to the present and these are
three documents worth reading and in
order to find out more about them visit
those websites that we talked about or
just use any search engine on the web
for National Security Archive that
is the organization that Peter Kornbluth
one of our guests today works for as a
senior analyst thank you very much Peter
corn blue and Robert Perry for joining
us today here on living room Robert
Perry once again you can reach him and
his magazine get copies of it one eight
hundred seven three eight one eight one
two we are always ready willing and able
to hear from you online at living room
at Pacific org or nineteen twenty nine
Martin Luther King jr. way Berkeley
California nine four seven oh four I'm
Larry Ben ski our producers Cheryl
flowers back tomorrow with something
completely different here on living room
[Music]
on the next living room we commemorate
the 20th anniversary of one of the great
tragedies of our century in this country
Jonestown and the deaths of more than
900 people will speak to a survivor of
that incident will speak to a journalist
who was involved for years in
investigating it and what happened
before during and after Jonestown and
will speak as well with a prominent
politician here in San Francisco who
analyzes why Jonestown happened we'll be
taking your phone calls as well on the
20th anniversary of the deaths at
Jonestown here on living room with me
Larry Benson
[Music]